adding docs for shard_stores api (#10124)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/cluster-api/shard-stores.md

---
layout: default 
title: Shard stores 
parent: Cluster APIs 
nav_order: 70
---

# Shard stores

> The `_shard_stores` API provides information about the shard copies for one or more indices. This API helps to diagnose issues with unallocated shards by providing reasons why shards are unassigned and their current states.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_shard_stores` API provides information about the shard copies for one or more indexes. This API helps to diagnose issues with unallocated shards by indicating why shards are unassigned and providing their current states.
```

<!-- spec_insert_start
api: indices.shard_stores
component: endpoints
-->
## Endpoints
```json
GET /_shard_stores
GET /{index}/_shard_stores
```
<!-- spec_insert_end -->

<!-- spec_insert_start
api: indices.shard_stores
component: path_parameters
include_global: false
include_deprecated: false
pretty: false
-->
## Path parameters

The following table lists the available path parameters. All path parameters are optional.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `index` | List or String | List of data streams, indexes, and aliases used to limit the request. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `index` | List or String | Limits health reporting to a specific source. Can be a single source or a comma-separated list of sources (data streams, indexes, or aliases). |
```

Author: @kolchfa-aws Mix is allowed, I've updated the api [PR](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-api-specification/pull/931/commits/88e556fcdea60dada4e0d98178330c74eb1754e2)  with:

"Limits health reporting to a specific source. Can be a single source or a comma-separated list of sources (comprised of data streams, indexes, and aliases)."

<!-- spec_insert_end -->

<!-- spec_insert_start
api: indices.shard_stores
component: query_parameters
include_global: false
include_deprecated: false
columns: Parameter, Data type, Description, Default
pretty: true
-->
## Query parameters

The following table lists the available query parameters. All query parameters are optional.

| Parameter | Data type | Description | Default |
| `allow_no_indices` | Boolean | If `false`, the request returns an error if any wildcard expression, index alias, or `_all` value targets only missing or closed indexes. This behavior applies even if the request targets other open indexes. | `false` |

> | `expand_wildcards` | List or String | Type of index that wildcard patterns can match. If the request can target data streams, this argument determines whether wildcard expressions match hidden data streams. <br> Valid values are: <br> - `all`: Match any index, including hidden ones. <br> - `closed`: Match closed, non-hidden indexes. <br> - `hidden`: Match hidden indexes. Must be combined with open, closed, or both. <br> - `none`: Wildcard expressions are not accepted. <br> - `open`: Match open, non-hidden indexes. | `open`  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `expand_wildcards` | List or String | The type of index that wildcard patterns can match. If the request can target data streams, this argument determines whether wildcard expressions match hidden data streams. <br> Valid values are: <br> - `all`: Match any index, including hidden ones. <br> - `closed`: Match closed, non-hidden indexes. <br> - `hidden`: Match hidden indexes. Must be combined with open, closed, or both. <br> - `none`: Wildcard expressions are not accepted. <br> - `open`: Match open, non-hidden indexes. | `open`  |
```

> | `expand_wildcards` | List or String | Type of index that wildcard patterns can match. If the request can target data streams, this argument determines whether wildcard expressions match hidden data streams. <br> Valid values are: <br> - `all`: Match any index, including hidden ones. <br> - `closed`: Match closed, non-hidden indexes. <br> - `hidden`: Match hidden indexes. Must be combined with open, closed, or both. <br> - `none`: Wildcard expressions are not accepted. <br> - `open`: Match open, non-hidden indexes. | `open`  |

Reviewer: "Must be combined with `open`, `closed`, or both" (code font)?

Author: Thats now pushed in this commit to PR in API-spec https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-api-specification/pull/931/commits/88e556fcdea60dada4e0d98178330c74eb1754e2

```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

The response lists the stores that were assigned to each shard. If a shard has no assigned stores, it is marked `unassigned`:

```json
{
  "indices": {
    "logs-shardstore": {
      "shards": {
        "0": {
          "stores": [
            {
              "UFyVYVMCSDOObiRwPxSW5w": {
                "name": "opensearch-node1",
                "ephemeral_id": "vkSB_-M7QVyFXvgda6oRZg",
                "transport_address": "172.19.0.2:9300",
                "attributes": {
                  "shard_indexing_pressure_enabled": "true"
                }
              },
              "allocation_id": "PEM5YjEWSz-jJEj-Not6Aw",
              "allocation": "primary"
            }
          ]
        },
        "1": {
          "stores": []
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Response body fields

The following table lists all response body fields.

| Field | Data type | Description|
| `indices` | Object| Contains shard store information for each index. |
| `indices.<index>.shards`| Object| Contains store data for each shard in the index. |
| `shards.<shard_id>.stores`| Array |  A list of store entries for the shard.|

> | `stores[n].<node_id>` | Object| Node metadata including name, transport address, and attributes. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `stores[n].<node_id>` | Object| Node metadata, including name, transport address, and attributes. |
```
